# minikube-board
For minikube dasboard to work in your browser:
----------------------------------------------

Before you get started, you need to have firewalld daemon running on your vm.

Then open port 8001.

run: $sudo firewall-cmd --permanent --zone=public --add-port=8001/tcp

and: $sudo firewall-cmd --reload.

to see list of ports opened:

run: $sudo firewall-cmd --list-all

And finally, you need to edit your security group on your ec2 and open port 8001.





1. check the the minikube addons and be sure that the dashboard and metrics-server addons are enabled.

run: $minikube addons list

2. To enable any of the above:

run:$minikube addons enable <name of addons>



3.run the command below on a different terminal(you actually need about 3 terminals): 
  $kubectl proxy --address='0.0.0.0' --disable-filter=true


4. run this on the second terminal:$minikube dashboard 


5. On your terminal, copy the url generated by the "minikube dashboard" and paste on your browser. Then edit the 127.0.0.1:port-number   
   to the public-ip of your ec2 e.g 3.7.11.12:8001. The 8001 is the secured port your minikube dashboard is listening on.


kubectl proxy --address='0.0.0.0' --disable-filter=true
--------------------------------------------------------
The kubectl proxy command creates a proxy server between your local machine and the Kubernetes API server, which allows you to access the Kubernetes API using localhost or 127.0.0.1. The --address flag specifies the IP address on which the proxy server should listen, and the --disable-filter flag disables the filtering of non-localhost requests.

In your case, the command kubectl proxy --address='0.0.0.0' --disable-filter=true will start the proxy server with the following configurations:

The proxy server will listen on all available network interfaces (i.e., 0.0.0.0).
The proxy server will not filter non-localhost requests.
This command is useful when you want to access the Kubernetes API from a remote machine or when you want to allow other users to access the API server on your local machine.

However, you should be careful when using the --disable-filter flag as it can potentially expose your Kubernetes API to unauthorized access. Only use this flag when you are absolutely sure that it is safe to do so.



why does minikube remote server listen on port 8001?
----------------------------------------------------

Minikube runs a Kubernetes cluster locally on your machine using a virtualization technology such as VirtualBox, Hyper-V, or Docker. By default, the Kubernetes API server in Minikube is configured to listen on port 8443, and the kubectl command-line tool is configured to communicate with the API server using HTTPS.

However, when you use the minikube tunnel command to expose services running inside the Minikube cluster to the outside world, it creates a secure tunnel between your local machine and the Minikube virtual machine. The tunnel listens on port 8001 on your local machine and forwards traffic to the Kubernetes API server in the Minikube cluster. This allows you to access services running inside the Minikube cluster using a web browser or other HTTP client.

In summary, the Minikube remote server listens on port 8001 because it is used by the minikube tunnel command to create a secure tunnel between your local machine and the Kubernetes API server running inside the Minikube cluster.

